So now we have the single portfolio item and right now it's using the single.php template. And we also
have the taxonomy archive, the project type archive which is now using the archive.php template. And also
the skills will use the same template. But what if we want to create a special template for the single page
and the archives. So let's start by the portfolio archive. So let's remove this name.
And here we should have a list of all the portfolio items.
And right now we're also falling back to archive.php.
So let's create a template especially for the portfolio archive.
So all we have to do is create a new file in our theme and we'll call it "archive-" and then the
custom post type name.
So in our case it's called "_themename_portfolio.php".
And here I'm gonna paste a basic loop which will just display the title and the pagination.
So you can populate this loop as you wish and create template parts and all the stuff that we did for
the blog.
But that's not the point of this lecture.
I think you can already do that by yourself.
I just want to let you know the file names that you will have to create in order to create an archive
for the custom post type.
So now if we refresh the archive post type, now we will have the template that will just display the title
of the portfolio item. And same for the single.
So let's go to this item and now let's go and create a new file. And let's call it
single-_themename_portfolio. php. And I'm also gonna paste the basic template with
the header and footer and the title and the content.
So let's save and refresh.
Now we have the title and the content.
So here of course you can display the featured image and the custom taxonomies that we created, the skills and
the project type and stuff like that.
But I'm just gonna leave this to you. Let's now finally see what we have to do in order to create a template
for the taxonomy archive.
All right?
So we have the project type taxonomy here and what we have to do is, let's also copy this loop and create a
new file.
And this one will be called "taxonomy-_themename_" and then the taxonomy name.
So we called it projecttype. And let's paste
and as you can see. Let's finally go to a skill.
So here and let's view of these. And let's create a new file
"taxonomy-" and then the taxonomy name. So "taxonomy-_themename_skills.php.
And let's paste this loop.
And now we have it.
So you may have noticed that we will have a problem now when we build our theme.
So when we build our theme and plugins our taxonomy name will be the actual theme name and then projecttype
and same for the post type, it will be the actual theme name "_portfolio" and so on.
But the templates that we created here are called "_themename" the placeholder, right?
So we need to use these files only while developing.
And when we build our theme we need to rename these to the actual theme name.
So let's modify our gulpfile to do that in the next lecture.